The social composition of the "indignados", young people with no hope, is shifting towards "desesperados", - desperate -, the number one victims of the crisis: women, older workers, less skilled, less educated. These people are going below the level of poverty and we see outbreaks of humanitarian crisis in developed countries. Desperados may easily go outlaw and express their anger with violence. Political action has to shift from political debate to supporting the desperados. New economy models, rooted on solidarity, would be proven at providing visible solutions to the extreme case of the desperados. A new monetary system should be tested along it. The social composition of the "indignados", young people with no hope, is shifting towards "desesperados", - desperate -, the number one victims of the crisis: women, older workers, less skilled, less educated. These people are going below the level of poverty and we see outbreaks of humanitarian crisis in developed countries. Desperados may easily go outlaw and express their anger with violence. Political action has to shift from political debate to supporting the desperados. New economy models, rooted on solidarity, would be proven at providing visible solutions to the extreme case of the desperados. A new monetary system should be tested along it. The new monetary system would be the ultimate aggregator allowing consolidating the new solutions in no-return solutions. 
In this monetary system, made out of multiple local community currencies, money should be issued on the basis of goods already in the market or on their way to market.  A would-be money issuer must, in exchange for the goods or services he buys from the market, place goods or services on the market. Issuers can be enterprises, industrial associations, or social enterprises. Anyone who offers goods and services for sale in the market is qualified to issue currency. In this simple rule of equity lies the essence of money.
With regard to the currency or credit system itself, it must be designed in such a way as to assure reciprocity in free-market exchange. The currency, in its paper or electronic format, is a legal committment of the issuer to redeem it with the goods it has promised. The currency has to take the form of a Ricardian CONTRACT that expresses this committment of the ISSUER with all HOLDERS. 
We propose a semantic model, as an XSD schema, to be followed by any transaction service of any local community currency that builds on the above principles. 
The XSD model reflects a CONTRACT of the ISSUER and its associated COLLECTORS with respect a range of MERCHANDISES, for a valid period, with the initial HOLDERS.
HOLDERS can be electronic accounts associated to registered CITIZENS or printed VOUCHERS. 
The transaction model is:
For electronic accounts, SPLIT of shares of a HOLDER and PASS over the splitted shares to another HOLDER.
For paper vouchers, circulation until redemption.
The XSD models offers an optional follow up system though BitCoin.
We do NOT propose any software to support the issuing, the accounts or the transactions.
We do NOT propose any software to support the user wallets. 
We do NOT propose any specific encryption or protection software, although the model foresees places for different types of keys.
We offer some examples of CONTRACTS and digital friendly paper voucher designs, as XLS stylesheets and HTML. 
All examples work best with Firefox.
desperado.theory@gmail.com
